more than anything I'm proud of myself
you are proud of yourself you're proud
of yourself just stop and reflect on
that I don't think my father should have
been proud of himself for reading a 700
page novel and took 10 years to do it or
something okay no there's no pride in
that
a grown man reading a novel is not a big
accomplishment and James Joyce Ulysses
is just another novel I don't think that
you Sara
should be proud of yourself for drug
tourism there's no pride in it there is
nothing here for you to be proud of
least of all vomiting and hallucinating
on this particular drug ayahuasca I love
this use of the word ceremony too I mean
you met up with your drug dealer okay
and you got high that's what happened
you and you can call it a ceremony okay
you got high on hallucinogenic drugs
that's what you paid for
package deal if a crackhead refers to
crack as medicine how seriously do you
take that if someone who Huff's glue
refers to the glue as medicine how
seriously do you take that if an
alcoholic refers to whiskey as medicine
how seriously do you take that guess
what guys you can hallucinate if you
just drink enough vodka you can
hallucinate if you just smoked enough
hashish it doesn't mean they're medicine
a lot of people and you're unbelievable
misery their whole lives long and
they're looking for something they're
looking for something to make them feel
better they're looking for something to
give their life a sense of meaning
Direction purpose optimism I can relate
I also have a human heart you know but
my message here is if you're looking for
something make sure it's something that
doesn't cause brain damage make sure
it's something that isn't built on lies
and doesn't work
why are you to lie to others because
when you end up lying about these things
man that's that's a real red flag that's
a real sign when you got people coming
on the internet claiming they're sober
lying to themselves and lying to others
about their sobriety the fact that
you're lying about it is almost as
powerful an indicator as the fact that
you're giving yourself brain damage for
it and then 0.3 you really gotta watch
out for like false claims about
philosophical profundity about these
things in your life even if we weren't
talking about a hallucinogenic drug
whether you're talking about a religion
or a book be it fiction or nonfiction
dude if you meet someone who says that
they found the meaning of life in Star
Wars or Lord of the Rings or in a video
game like have you ever had one of those
conversations where someone tries to
tell you that they found the meaning of
life playing a 16-bit videogame and
you're like dude I don't care what the
[ __ ] you're about to tell me next
whatever was in that video game it's not
that meaningful it's not that profound
can we have a moment of recognition that
any supposedly profound truth you are
going to claim to have discovered
through the use of hallucinogenic drugs
it is gonna be on the same level as a
glue Huffer telling you about the
profundity he discovered through huffing
glue or somebody who suffered a
concussion in a car accident
telling you about a profound realization
they had in moments of delirious
dementia of hallucinating because they
had a concussion in our car accident
stop lying to yourself and stop lying to
others above the profunda these things
I'm gonna throw in like a really quick
example of something that is in no way
related to drugs my father lied about
reading the novel Ulysses by James Joyce
for damn near ten years all right I
didn't count the
number of years but like he was lying
about this before I started high school
and all the way through to my finishing
university and like nobody else put him
in check on this and I can remember
saying to him a couple times like when I
was university like are you still
bragging about reading a novel a novel
it's not a work of philosophy this is
not a work of political history this is
a novel that high school kids read while
they're still in high school all right
and you are lying you're lying to
yourself and others that you're reading
it and I know you're not reading it
because it doesn't take eight years to
read this novel it's just not reasonable
and you're boasting about it like it's
this huge accomplishment we get to me
this is really like comparable to the
drug trip thing why would you be
boasting about drug tourism why would
you be boasting about flying to Costa
Rica to get high on a hallucinogen why
would anyone be boasting about cocaine
LSD any of these drugs right you're
boasting about reading this novel I said
to my father you haven't even read it
like what have you been reading one page
a day or less like I know you're not
actually reading this novel so you know
me and my father we really had like zero
communication for about 10 years almost
zero communication right at the end of
that time so there's like a 10-year gap
I said to mr. [ __ ] face I was like oh
yeah how about how about Ulysses by
James Joyce
but he finally read the novel and I
wonder if I guilt-tripped him into it
because I pointed out he'd been bragging
to people but having read this novel for
so many years are you finally gonna read
it you know you had nothing to say it's
not that meaningful it's just a novel
it's just a hit novel Star Wars is just
a hit movie Lord of the Rings is just
pulp fiction I mean get over it okay
getting high and hallucinating is just
that people come on the Internet people
come on social media and they promote
this stuff they propel this stuff you
know they lie to themselves they lie to
others they have no interest in the
scientific reality of brain damage of
what are the effects in the brain that
bring about this hallucination right and
they ascribe to it this kind of false
philosophical profundity I can't wait to
be home and see how the lessons I've
learned impact my day-to-day you
wouldn't feel some humility about that
you wouldn't feel some sense of shame
what if this drug tourism really did
impact your day-to-day life
wouldn't that be sad wouldn't you have
to look back on that with regret like
wow I changed my day-to-day life from
the basis of a drug trip on the basis of
something that is no better than huffing
glue getting a concussion or coming down
with tropical fever guys I used to live
in the tropics trust me tropical fever
causes hallucinations no better and no
worse than taking these drugs all you're
doing is inducing illness you're making
yourself sick to experience a mental
state that comes about with a whole wide
range of infections okay whole wide
range of illnesses because they don't
but what you have no shame Oh wouldn't
that be great for you to have these
lessons lessons taught to you by a drug
trip relationship with cooking feels
totally renewed after a long time
wondering if I even wanted to keep
making food related content maybe you
should take a good long look at how
meaningful or how meaningless your life
yeah you know what maybe you got a solid
intuition there maybe you were
suspecting that there's something more
to life that would ease but now
meaningless cooking videos and no no no
no you took a vacation you got high on
drugs and now you're reassured that this
is something really meaningful to do
with us
what a self-serving delusion boy you
sure got what you paid for signing up
for that drug trip anything I'm proud of
myself you are proud of yourself you're
proud of yourself just stop and reflect
on that I don't think my father should
have been proud of himself for reading a
700 page novel and took 10 years to do
it or something okay no there's no pride
in that
a grown man reading a novel is not a big
accomplishment and James Joyce Ulysses
it's just another novel I don't think
that you Sara
should be proud of yourself for drug
tourism there's no pride in it there is
nothing here for you to be proud of
least of all vomiting and hallucinating
on this particular drug ayahuasca your
brother I'm proud of myself for coming
to a strange new place alone going
to--they of Manson talking to people
every day my social anxiety maybe break
down and cry for about an hour on the
first day but I dusted myself off and
kept going the biggest lesson I've
learned is that I can figure anything
out as well as I keep trying anything
huh anything you think you can take on
any challenge now that you've been to a
resort hotel where you were waited on
hand and foot now that you can cope with
the anxiety of being on vacation in a
tropical resort hotel Wow all right I
mean you know like people climb a
mountain and then they feel a lot of
confidence I would point out skeptically
also well you know climbing a mountain
it's not really a skill set that
prepares you for anything else in life
you know what the skill set of being on
vacation in a resort hotel it really is
not testing you nor preparing you for
much of anything else unless somebody
accidentally perhaps took my flip-flops
at the end of yesterday's ceremony
yeah I love this use of the word
ceremony to like I mean you met up with
your drug dealer okay and you got high
that's what happened you and you can
call it a ceremony okay you got high on
hallucinogenic drugs that's what you
paid for package deal
and they won't worry my sneakers with my
dress by the way
yesterday's ceremony was amazing I felt
pure safety and love and appreciation
for myself for the first time she you
know and you feel no shame you feel no
regret you don't look at this and think
wow if getting high on drugs is what I
need to do to feel appreciation for
myself what the hell does that say about
me what does that say about me
how pathetic and how low is that no no
reflection on this after processing the
most intense grief and fear on night
number two not even going to attempt to
put it into words right now just gonna
wait until I talk about it on the
channel such podcast lol I'll bet you
were laughing out loud
I bet you were cackling bet you were
just laughing as you type that no I
don't think you were I think you got
intimidated after you uploaded one video
shamelessly promoting this drug trip
vacation you got a lot of negative
reactions and then you decided to delete
that video I don't know if I was the
only YouTube channel to criticize that
video I made a few videos of my own
really trying to draw attention to the
cracks in the story of presenting her
Sarah and trying to draw attention to
the harm you may do to other people day
after my first is ceremony you guys no
words can explain it by far the scariest
experience of my life it made me realize
that was living in this limbo between a
wanting to live an inspired life and B
wanted to run away from life constantly
the suicidal thoughts I've experienced
my whole life the medicine confront me
if a crackhead refers to crack as men
how seriously do you take that if
someone who Huff's glue refers to the
glue as medicine how seriously do you
take that if an alcoholic refers to
whiskey as medicine how seriously
detailer guess what guys you can
hallucinate if you just drink enough
vodka
you can hallucinate if you just smoked
enough hashish it doesn't mean they're
medicine all of this is just
intoxication what you're experiencing is
brain toxicity and again hallucination
that is in principle no different from
what you can get from any tropical fever
or even fevers brought in on by adverse
reactions to you know treatment in
hospital with conventional drugs the
medicine confronted me with the
opportunity to leave this life and I
chose resoundingly to stay to be right
here she showed me a lot of other things
but I felt this one should be shared so
some people might need to be reminded
that it is safe to commit to being alive
I'm glad you're here yeah what
inspiration you are to us all Sarah I
see this again and again there's another
guy with the YouTube channel called
London real and he talks about sobriety
and he talks about his history of drug
addiction but he is still a crackhead in
every meaningful sense and he is still
out propounding and encouraging people
to use this same hallucinogenic drug
ayahuasca there's another guy CG kid
gonna play a clip right now
he says he's sober he came on YouTube
and preached sobriety for so long what
you're about to hear is that he always
had the mentality of a crackhead okay
and it's the mentality that matters most
of all it's not just the drug habit it's
not just the brain damage it's the set
of Lies that go along with the brain
damage it's the fact that you're lying
to yourself and others about it both on
that practical level of lying about what
you're actually doing with your time
what you do with the money where you're
going lying saying that you're sober
when you're not but then the deeper lies
also of ascribing false philosophical
profundity - what is no more and no less
than the drug trip people like to
disrespect my truth but the fact is that
you know my name is I don't know you and
then I got hit with pretty much an
existential crisis because in my last
three videos I did say I was six and a
half years sober in the beginning and I
that lie harm me yet more than it I
don't think it really harmed anybody
else and those videos weren't really
recovery videos is like one was an
interview a documentary with other
people and I'm a weed addiction Q&A but
at the same time I felt really horrible
about the fact that I lied he died
basically smoking eating if there was
THC enemas or like things I could have
plugged I would have done that it was
like weed everywhere and non-stop and I
was taking like a crap ton of value most
taking like a lot like 40 milligrams a
day but my tolerance built and I was
taking so much I lost count and then I
was drinking I started drinking because
my tolerance went up and the pills I
just didn't have that many so it's like
oh I mix it with alcohol which is
extremely dangerous
I was drinking about a pint - two pints
of whiskey a night and I got to a point
I was just chugging models weed and
valium in the day more alcohol at night
and then I was like well crap like now
my mind's all blurry so I need adderall
which was my excuse to take adderall so
then I think oh I need DXM like that
would be therapeutic for my depression
which and I had access to it it failed
two of my classes I didn't even show up
for two of the tests anyway so I go
through like the worst withdrawal ever I
don't know what hours are drawing from I
imagine I was withdrawing from weed
alcohol benzos and I think the
depersonalization from DXM hadn't been
of affecting me and I know that
withdrawing from either alcohol or
benzos alone can kill you and then I got
hit with pretty much an existential
crisis because in my last three videos I
did say I was six and a half years sober
in the beginning and I that lie harm me
yet more than it I don't think it really
harmed anybody else but at the same time
I felt really horrible about the fact
that I lied
[Music]